# FINAL_PROJEC_STATS_4310
The Data On this  Repository was gathered at https://texas.hometownlocator.com/tx/houston/ for use at Scholars Academy TTC Program by Elda Piedade.

# Abstract

The objective of this research is to implement linear regression and
neural network algorithms to predict the median home value for the
houses in Houston zip codes. Data was gathered from 96 zip codes in
Houston by utilizing python web scrapping resources to collect data
from the Texas Hometown Locator website (owned by HTL, Inc.).With
the dataset extracted and cleaned, exploratory data analysis and
statistical analysis were performed to understand the relationship
between the median home value and other variables, such as diversity
index, per capita income, and average household size. Based on the
analysis, data was modeled with linear regression and neural networks,
with the goal of assessing which model yields the best results. Initial
results from the linear regression model indicate that the diversity
index and average household size are not significant predictors. On the
other hand, the per capita income identifies as the best predictor.
Additionally, although previous assumptions, the diversity index is
only moderately negatively correlated with the median home value. In
other words, the more diverse a zip code is, the slightly smaller is the
median home value. Further, into this research, the population in focus
will extend to other Texas cities, such as Austin. With more data, the
relationship between variables and median home value can be better
evaluated as well as the prediction capacity of each model.
